# Reddit/r/\<ML Topics\>

### r/datascience: [Any Data Scientists here working for Microsoft or Amazon?](https://www.reddit.com/r/datascience/comments/pp2htw/any_data_scientists_here_working_for_microsoft_or/)

> [leatherarmor](https://www.reddit.com/user/leatherarmor/)·[8h](https://www.reddit.com/r/datascience/comments/pp2htw/any_data_scientists_here_working_for_microsoft_or/hd0ztxf/?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)·*edited 8h*
>
> I joined Amazon as a Data Scientist a few months ago in NYC.
>
> 1. **What kinds of projects are you working on as a data scientist?** Have you ever seen a product on Amazon that has only one photo, no text, and looks "fake"? Our team is working to help sellers improve their product listings. Our team builds models that are trained on and score the entire Amazon catalogue. We serve recommendations to sellers, e.g. "add 4+ photos". I'm currently building tracking to measure the impact of our product and concurrently performing causal inference studies on existing integrations.
> 2. **How have you grown as a data scientist since joining your company?** I barely knew AWS services before I joined, and I've been learning these services left and right since then. I enjoy the software and data engineering aspect of DS. One perk of working for Amazon is that you get all the AWS access you need.
> 3. **How does your company measure success of your projects?** No idea, but I don't think there's a simple answer. Generally speaking, it seems like you need to validate your own results and present them to a room of other scientists in what resembles peer review.
> 4. **How much corporate red tape do you have to deal with?** Almost zero. It's actually quite remarkable. Amazon is notorious for moving fast and not requiring signoff or permission for most things. They actively promote "bias for action" within the company. As far as I can tell, it is part of the culture.
> 5. **How much autonomy do you have? (For example to pursue a hunch where there is a potential for improvement even if no one notices or cares)** Lots. I'm treated far more senior than I was at my previous company. I report to one person and that's my manager. He listens to me on science topics and generally gives me ample control over what I am doing.
> 6. **What would you change about your company?** Amazon has some legacy internal tooling (outside AWS) that can be quite painful to work with. I also wish it was easier to use open source. It's certainly possible, but not always as easy as it should be.
> 7. **What's the remote work policy?** Atm, we are full remote. Starting in January, official policy from the top down is 3 days in, 2 days remote, although that might change.
> 8. **How's your work life balance?** So far great, but I'm still new. I think the long term answer is good not great. It's better than a startup, but there are big scary deadlines that you need to meet. FYI being a DS is quite a bit better than being a Data Engineer, because you won't be on call.